[NONE] - Adding extra information and examples about Relabel and Metric Relabel (#5320)
prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator: Documentation/user-guides/running-exporters.md

| container    | __meta_kubernetes_pod_container_name | `{name}` of the container in the scraped pod                                  |
| endpoint     | -                                    | `{spec.Port}` or `{spec.TargetPort}` if specified                             |

### Relabeling and Metric Relabeling

> Prometheus Operator provides the same capabilities as Prometheus to relabel a target before scrape or a metric before sample ingestion, below you can find examples for Service or Pod monitors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Prometheus Operator provides the same capabilities as Prometheus to relabel a target before scrape or a metric before sample ingestion, below you can find examples for Service or Pod monitors.
```

> Prometheus Operator provides the same Prometheus capability to relabel a target before scrape or a metric before sample ingestion, below you can find examples of each use case and implementation for Service or Pod monitors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus Operator provides the same capabilities as Prometheus to relabel a target before scrape or a metric before sample ingestion, below you can find examples for Service or Pod monitors.
```

#### Relabeling

Relabeling is a powerful feature to dynamically rewrite the label set of a target before it gets scraped, and multiple relabeling steps can be configured per scrape configuration.

> Relabel configs are applied to the label set of each target in order of their appearance in the configuration file.

**Dropping label from a target**

The following snippet drops the `pod` label from every metric scraped as part of the scrape job.

```yaml
- action: labeldrop
  regex: pod
```

**Adding label to a target**

> The following snippet will add or replace the `team` label to all the metrics scraped as part of this job with the value `prometheus`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following snippet will add or replace the `team` label with the value `prometheus` for all the metrics scraped as part of this job.
```

```yaml
- action: replace
  replacement: prometheus
  targetLabel: team
```

**Filtering targets by label**

> The following snippet will configure Prometheus to scrape metrics from the targets if they have the `team` label set to `prometheus` and `datacenter` not set to `west_europe`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following snippet will configure Prometheus to scrape metrics from the targets if they have the Kubernetes `team` label set to `prometheus` and the Kubernetes `datacenter` label not set to `west_europe`.
```

> The following snippet will only select targets that have the `team` label set to `prometheus` and exclude the ones that have `datacenter` set to `west_europe`.

Reviewer 2: nit: small rephasing to avoid using the word `select`

```suggestion
The following snippet will configure Prometheus to scrape metrics from the targets if they have the `team` label set to `prometheus` and `datacenter` not set to `west_europe`.
```

```yaml
- sourceLabels:

>   - team

Reviewer: it might be more meaningful to use a metadata label from the Kubernetes service discovery?

```suggestion
  - __meta_kubernetes_pod_label_team
```

Author: Definitely

  regex: "prometheus"
  action: keep
- sourceLabels:

>   - datacenter

Reviewer: same here

Author: Fixed!
Thanks

  regex: west_europe
  action: drop
```

**Full example**

> The following snippets is using a `ServiceMonitor` to only select targets that have the `team` label set to `prometheus` and exclude the ones that have `datacenter` set to `west_europe`, but the same configuration may be used with a `PodMonitor`

Reviewer 2: nit: small rephasing to avoid using the word `select`.
```suggestion
The following `ServiceMonitor` will configure Prometheus to scrape metrics from the target if they have the `team` label set to `prometheus` and `datacenter` not set to `west_europe`. The same configuration could also be used with a `PodMonitor`
```

> The following snippet is using a `ServiceMonitor` to only select targets that have the `team` label set to `prometheus` and exclude the ones that have `datacenter` set to `west_europe`. The same configuration may be used with a `PodMonitor`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following `ServiceMonitor` configures Prometheus to only select targets that have the `team` label set to `prometheus` and exclude the ones that have `datacenter` set to `west_europe`. The same configuration may be used with a `PodMonitor`.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: example-app
  labels:
    team: frontend
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: example-app
  endpoints:
  - port: web
    relabelings:
      - sourceLabels:
          - __meta_kubernetes_pod_label_team
        regex: "prometheus"
        action: keep
      - sourceLabels:
          - __meta_kubernetes_pod_label_datacenter
        regex: west_europe
        action: drop
```

#### Metric Relabeling

Metric relabeling is applied to samples as the last step before ingestion, and it has the same configuration format and actions as target relabeling.

> Metric relabeling does not apply to automatically generated timeseries such as up.

**Dropping metrics**

> The following configuration drops any metric which name (`__name__`) matches the regex `container_tasks_state`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following snippet drops any metric which name (`__name__`) matches the regex `container_tasks_state`.
```

```yaml
metricRelabelings:
- sourceLabels:
  - __name__
  regex: container_tasks_state
  action: drop
```

**Dropping time series**

> The following configuration drops metrics where the `id` label matches the regex `/system.slice/var-lib-docker-containers.*-shm.mount`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following snippet drops metrics where the `id` label matches the regex `/system.slice/var-lib-docker-containers.*-shm.mount`.
```

```yaml
metricRelabelings:
- sourceLabels:
  - id
  regex: '/system.slice/var-lib-docker-containers.*-shm.mount'
  action: drop
```

**Full example**

> drops metrics where the `id` label matches the regex `/system.slice/var-lib-docker-containers.*-shm.mount`, but the same configuration may be used with a `ServiceMonitor`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following `PodMonitor` configures Prometheus to drop metrics where the `id` label matches the regex `/system.slice/var-lib-docker-containers.*-shm.mount`. The same configuration could also be used with a `ServiceMonitor`
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: PodMonitor
metadata:
  name: example-app
  labels:
    team: frontend
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: example-app
  endpoints:
  - port: web
    metricRelabelings:
    - sourceLabels:
      - id
      regex: '/system.slice/var-lib-docker-containers.*-shm.mount'
      action: drop
```

For more information about `relabeling` and `metricRelabelings` please check the official Prometheus document.

- [Relabel Config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#relabel_config)
- [Metric Relabel Config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#metric_relabel_configs)

> ### Configuration

Reviewer: do we still need this section?

Author: I see this as backlinks, don't add anything extra but make the user's life easier.
@simonpasquier should I keep or drop?

Author: @simonpasquier wdyt? should I keep or drop it?

Reviewer: I would drop this section as it's redundant with your addition (unless I miss something).

Author: @simonpasquier agreed, I removed it.
Can you give a last review?

Reviewer: Hmm I don't see the removal in the PR. Did you forget to push?
To be clear, we should remove L225 to L236.

Author: Sorry!
Miss the push, now I guess this is right

| container    | __meta_kubernetes_pod_container_name | `{name}` of the container in the scraped pod                                  |
| endpoint     | -                                    | `{spec.Port}` or `{spec.TargetPort}` if specified                             |

### Relabeling and Metric Relabeling

Prometheus Operator provides the same Prometheus capability to relabel a target before scrape or a metric before sample ingestion, below you can find examples of each use case and implementation for Service or Pod monitors.

> #### Relabeling

Reviewer 3: It might be good to lead with a full ServiceMonitor/PodMonitor example to show where those snippets go.

Author: Done!
can you take a look @xiu ?

Reviewer 3: LGTM with the 2 additional suggestions, I can't approve/merge it as I'm not a maintainer, let's see what the others have to say. Thanks!

Relabeling is a powerful feature to dynamically rewrite the label set of a target before it gets scraped, and multiple relabeling steps can be configured per scrape configuration.
 
> Relabel configs are applied to the label set of each target in order of their appearance in the configuration file.

**Dropping label from a target**

> The config below will ensure that for every target discovered through the Pod or Service monitor the label `pod` will be removed from every metric exposed by that target.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following snippets drops the `pod` label from every metric scraped as part of the scrape job.
```

```yaml
- action: labeldrop
  regex: pod
```

**Adding label to a target**

> The config below will ensure that for every target discovered through the Pod or Service monitoir the label `team` will be added for every metric exposed by that target.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following configuration will add or replace the `team` label to all the metrics scraped as part of this job with the value `prometheus`.
```

```yaml
- action: replace
  replacement: prometheus
  targetLabel: team
```

**Filtering targets by label**

> The config below will ensure that Pod or Service monitor will only scrape targets that belongs to the Prometheus team and drop all the west europe instances.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following snippet will only select targets that have the `team` label set to `prometheus` and exclude the ones that have `datacenter` set to `west_europe`.
```

```yaml
- sourceLabels:
  - team
  regex: "prometheus"
  action: keep
- sourceLabels:
  - datacenter
  regex: west_europe
  action: drop
```

#### Metric Relabeling

Metric relabeling is applied to samples as the last step before ingestion, and it has the same configuration format and actions as target relabeling.

> Metric relabeling does not apply to automatically generated timeseries such as up.

**Dropping metrics**

> The config below will drop every metric that the name matches the regular expression.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following configuration drops any metric which name (`__name__`) matches the regex `container_tasks_state`.
```

```yaml
metricRelabelings:
- sourceLabels:
  - __name__
  regex: container_tasks_state
  action: drop
```

**Dropping time series**

> The config below will drop every time series having a label value pair that matches the regular expression.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following configuration drops metrics where the `id` label matches the regex `/system.slice/var-lib-docker-containers.*-shm.mount`.
```

```yaml
metricRelabelings:
- sourceLabels:
  - id
  regex: '/system.slice/var-lib-docker-containers.*-shm.mount'
  action: drop
```

For more information about `relabeling` and `metricRelabelings` please check the official Prometheus document.

- [Relabel Config](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#relabel_config)

> 

Reviewer 3: Not sure we need a new line here.

Author: Yeah!
Fixed 👍🏼 thanks mate
